Draft: Update "PWAs on Oculus 2" blog post (#8027)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/pwas-on-oculus-2/index.md

## The Oculus Browser

> Currently there are two browsers available for the Oculus Quest&nbsp;2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently there are three browsers available for the Oculus Quest&nbsp;2:
```

Albeit many permissions are implemented, not all features are supported. For example, while
requesting the geolocation permission succeeds, the device never actually gets a location.

> Similarly, the various hardware APIs like [Web HID](/hid/), [Web Bluetooth](/bluetooth/), etc. all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, the various hardware APIs like [WebHID](/hid/), [Web Bluetooth](/bluetooth/), etc. all
```

</table>
</div>

### Packaging PWAs with PWABuilder

Using [PWABuilder](https://pwabuilder.com) is the easiest and recommended way to package PWAs for
Oculus Quest at the moment.

PWABuilder is an [open source](https://github.com/pwa-builder), community guided project founded by
Microsoft, that allows developers to package and sign their PWAs for publishing to various stores,
including Microsoft Store, Google Play, App Store, and Oculus Store.

Packaging PWAs with PWABuilder is as easy as entering the URL of a PWA, selecting the platform

> (the **Meta Quest** in our case), entering/editing metadata for your app, and clicking **Generate**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(the **Meta Quest** in this case), entering/editing metadata for the app, and clicking the **Generate**
```

> (the **Meta Quest** in this case), entering/editing metadata for the app, and clicking the **Generate**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(**Meta Quest** in this case), entering/editing metadata for the app, and clicking the **Generate**
```

button.

> {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/fTX92hn8bIMpWVMoBUjZ.png", alt="Packaging PWAs for Oculus Quest with PWABuilder.", width="800", height="450" %}

Author: The image URL will be updated.

Reviewer: Final URL `image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/sWjB34HjwjatCMUz39Q3.png`.

Author: Changed.

{% Aside %} Pro tip: since PWABuilder is a PWA itself that works everywhere there is a browser, you
can open it in the Oculus Browser and perform all the steps right on your Oculus Quest. {% endAside %}

### Packaging PWAs with the command line tool

If you don't have a manifest on your live PWA or wish to override the live manifest, you can still

> generate APK for your PWA using a local manifest file and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate an APK for your PWA using a local manifest file and
```

> generate an APK for your PWA using a local manifest file and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate an APK for your PWA using a local manifest file and a
```

adb install output.apk
```

{% Aside %} Pro tip: you can use [Android Web Toolbox](https://yume-chan.github.io/ya-webadb/install)
to sideload the APK. It's an [open source](https://github.com/yume-chan/ya-webadb/) web app that allows
you to access all ADB functionality right from the browser even from another Android device. No

> installation or drivers required thanks to [Web USB API](/usb/). {% endAside %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installation or drivers are required thanks to the [Web USB API](/usb/). {% endAside %}
```

### App submission

{% Aside %} Submission and consideration for the Oculus Store is only available if you have been
approved as an Oculus Quest Store developer. Distribution of PWAs via App Lab is not currently

> available. Oculus team will share more on when and how you can submit a PWA to App Lab soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available. The Oculus team will share more on when and how you can submit a PWA to App Lab soon.
```

{% YouTube "Gjc0IR17kAk" %}

## Immersive 3D WebXR PWAs

PWA support on Oculus Quest is not limited to flat 2D apps. Developers can build immersive 3D
experiences for VR using the [WebXR API](/tags/webxr/).

Wondering how various prompts (PWA install, permission requests, notifications) are handled
from within VR, if at all?

Here's a screencast of
[User Agent Prompts Test](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-samples/tests/permission-request.html)
from the [Immersive Web Working Group](https://immersive-web.github.io/)'s
[WebXR Tests](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-samples/tests/).

> {% YouTube "OCNDbIf9G9w" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Video autoplay=true, muted=true, loop=true, playsinline=true, src="video/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/4fvDWOo2XxF67M8r3W3O.mp4" %}
```

As you can see, entering VR mode requires the user's permission. Permissions are asked once per origin.
Requesting permissions leaves the immersive mode. Notifications are currently not supported.

> Also, you can use hands to interact with PWAs in immersive mode thanks to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hand tracking

You can use hands to interact with PWAs in immersive mode thanks to
```

{% YouTube "Gjc0IR17kAk" %}

## Immersive 3D WebXR PWAs

PWA support on Oculus Quest is not limited to flat 2D apps. Developers can build immersive 3D
experiences for VR using the [WebXR API](/tags/webxr/).

Wondering how various prompts (PWA install, permission requests, notifications) are handled
from within VR, if at all?

Here's a screencast of
[User Agent Prompts test](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-samples/tests/permission-request.html)
from the [Immersive Web Working Group](https://immersive-web.github.io/)'s
[WebXR Tests](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-samples/tests/).

{% Video autoplay=true, muted=true, loop=true, playsinline=true, src="video/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/4fvDWOo2XxF67M8r3W3O.mp4" %}

As you can see, entering VR mode requires the user's permission. Permissions are asked once per origin.
Requesting permissions leaves the immersive mode. Notifications are currently not supported.

### Hand tracking

> You can use hands to interact with PWAs in immersive mode thanks to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use your hands to interact with PWAs in immersive mode thanks to
```

> You can use your hands to interact with PWAs in immersive mode thanks to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use your hands to interact with PWAs in immersive mode thanks to the
```

> [WebXR Hand Input API](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-hand-input/) and some Meta's
> [AI magic](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/hand-tracking-deep-neural-networks/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[WebXR Hand Input API](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-hand-input/) and Meta's
[AI-based hand-tracking system](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/hand-tracking-deep-neural-networks/).
```

Here's a screencast of
[Hand Tracking Sample](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-samples/immersive-hands.html)
from the Immersive Web Working Group's [WebXR Samples](https://immersive-web.github.io/webxr-samples/).

> {% YouTube "wH8PYsSZhYc" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Video autoplay=true, muted=true, loop=true, playsinline=true, src="video/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/nDm0rY5DvtyTbDgUqFTS.mp4" %}
```
